From Peru to Australia, Madagascar to California, the world has many wonderful tree species. How many? A new study suggests there are about 73,000 kinds of trees, many of them still undiscovered. Such information reminds us of how much more we can learn about the Earth Earth experts say. Researchers recently revealed the world's largest forest database, one that is made up of more than 44 million trees at more than 100,000 locations in 90 countries. Researchers used the data to estimate that Earth has about 73,300 tree species. That number is about 14% higher than earlier estimates. Of that total, about 9200 are estimated to exist based on mathematical predictions, but have not yet been identified by science. Many of these trees grow in South America, the researchers said. South America, home to the Amazon rainforest and Indian forests, was found to have 43% of the planet's tree species and the largest number of rare species at about 8200. Roberto Katzola Gaudi of the University of Bologna in Italy was the lead writer of the study that appeared recently in the publication Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Trees and forests are much more than just oxygen producers, Gotti said, explaining that they play an important part in the health of the environment. He added, Our society often considers forests as just pieces of wood and trees as natural resources. From trees and forests, humanity gets inspiration, relaxation, spirituality and essentially the meaning of life. The research team estimated that South America has about 27,000 known tree species and 4000 yet to be identified. The team also had estimates for other areas of the world. Europe and Asia have about 14,000 known species and 2000 unknown species. Africa has 10,000 known species and 1000 unknown. North America, including Central America, has 9000 known and 2000 unknown, while Oceania, including Australia, has 7000 known and 2000 unknown. Study cowriter Peter Reich of the University of Michigan and University of Minnesota said that by measuring the number of trees, our study can contribute to tree and forest conservation efforts. Conservation is a term that means the protection of plants, animals and the natural environment. Reich believes that tree species diversity is key to maintaining healthy, productive forests and important to the global economy and to nature. He added that the information in the study is important because tree species are going extinct due to deforestation and climate change, and understanding the value of that diversity requires us to know what is there in the first place before we lose it. This study did not estimate the total number of individual trees globally, but 2015 research led by one of the coauthors put that number at about 3 trillion. The new study identified global tree diversity hotspots in the tropics and subtropics in South America, Central America, Africa, Asia and Oceania. It also determined that about a third of known species can be classified as rare. The researchers used methods developed by mathematicians to estimate the number of unknown species by using the numbers of known species. Tropical and subtropical areas in South America may have 40% of these yet to be identified species, they said. Jingjing Liang of Purdue University University in Indiana was a co writer of the study. This study reminds us how little we know about our planet. There is so much more we need to learn about the Earth so that we can better protect it and conserve natural resources for future generations, Liang said. I am John Russell.